README.md, before:

[![SSW Banner](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content/main/_docs/images/ssw-banner.png)](https://github.com/SSWConsulting/VerticalSliceArchitecture)

# 🤔 What is it?

An enterprise ready solution template for Vertical Slice Architecture.
This template is just one way to apply the Vertical Slice Architecture.

Read more on [SSW Rules to Better Vertical Slice Architecture](https://www.ssw.com.au/rules/rules-to-better-vertical-slice-architecture/)

## Learn

[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/watch%20the%20video-FF0000?style=for-the-badge&logo=youtube)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T-EwN9UqRwE) [![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Read%20the%20Blog-06D6A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=rss&logoColor=fff)](http://lukeparker.dev/blog/vertical-slice-architecture-quick-start)

[![Vertical Slice Architecture: How Does it Compare to Clean Architecture | .NET Conf 2023](https://i3.ytimg.com/vi/T-EwN9UqRwE/maxresdefault.jpg)
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T-EwN9UqRwE)

# 🎉 Getting Started

To install the template from NuGet.org run the following command:

```bash
dotnet new install SSW.VerticalSliceArchitecture.Template
```

Then create a new solution:

```bash
mkdir Sprout
cd Sprout

dotnet new ssw-vsa
```

Finally, to update the template to the latest version run:

```bash
dotnet new update
```

# 📚 Faster Development

To speed up development there is a `dotnet new` template to create a full Vertical Slice.

```bash
dotnet new ssw-vsa-slice -f Student
```
`-f` or `--feature` where the feature name is the **singular** name of the feature.

Of course, there are always exceptions where appending an 's' is not enough. For example, `Person` becomes `People` and `Child` becomes `Children`.

For this, use the optional parameter:

```bash
dotnet new ssw-vsa-slice -f Person -fp People
```

optional: `-fp` or `--feature-plural` where the feature name is the **plural** name of the feature.

This creates everything you need to get started with a new feature.

- Full CRUD endpoints
- CQRS 
    - missing `EventHandlers/` folder as this is more uncommon
    - provides `Events/` as a folder to demonstrate how to trigger side effects
- Basic REPR pattern (i.e., Request, an Endpoint, and a Response)
- Adds a new Entity
- Basic DDD pattern - the 'Complete' method on the entity shows adding Domain events and using `Result` objects instead of exceptions for validation
- Adds a DbSet to the DbContext
- Adds EF Core Entity Type Configuration
- Adds a Repository

While there is a small amount of code to remove, it is better to push you towards the pit of success, than allow inconsistency.

# 📝 Architecture

```mermaid
graph TD;
    subgraph ASP.NET Core Web App
        subgraph Slices
            A[Feature A]
            B[Feature B]
        end
        Slices --> |depends on| Common
        Host --> |depends on| Common
        Host --> |depends on| Slices
        ASPNETCore[ASP.NET Core] --> |uses| Host
    end

    Common[Common]
```

# ✨ Features

- C# 12
- .NET 8
- ASP.NET Core
- Minimal APIs
- EF Core
- Swagger UI

Commit message:

#113 Updated template to handle new domain structure (#121)
Resolves #113 

- Moved the template into an arbitrary folder structure at
`templates/slice` to simplify the created domain
- Updated the template to ensure namespaces are renamed correctly
- Made feature name plural a required paramater of the new slice
template for simplicity
- Slight refactors to ensure builds succeed
    - ApplicationDbContext is built from partial files

README.md, after:

[![SSW Banner](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content/main/_docs/images/ssw-banner.png)](https://github.com/SSWConsulting/VerticalSliceArchitecture)

# 🤔 What is it?

An enterprise ready solution template for Vertical Slice Architecture.
This template is just one way to apply the Vertical Slice Architecture.

Read more on [SSW Rules to Better Vertical Slice Architecture](https://www.ssw.com.au/rules/rules-to-better-vertical-slice-architecture/)

## Learn

[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/watch%20the%20video-FF0000?style=for-the-badge&logo=youtube)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T-EwN9UqRwE) [![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Read%20the%20Blog-06D6A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=rss&logoColor=fff)](http://lukeparker.dev/blog/vertical-slice-architecture-quick-start)

[![Vertical Slice Architecture: How Does it Compare to Clean Architecture | .NET Conf 2023](https://i3.ytimg.com/vi/T-EwN9UqRwE/maxresdefault.jpg)
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T-EwN9UqRwE)

# 🎉 Getting Started

To install the template from NuGet.org run the following command:

```bash
dotnet new install SSW.VerticalSliceArchitecture.Template
```

Then create a new solution:

```bash
mkdir Sprout
cd Sprout

dotnet new ssw-vsa
```

Finally, to update the template to the latest version run:

```bash
dotnet new update
```

# 📚 Faster Development

To speed up development there is a `dotnet new` template to create a full Vertical Slice.

```bash
cd src/WebApi/

dotnet new ssw-vsa-slice -f Person -fp People
```
`-f` or `--feature` where the feature name is the **singular** name of the feature.
`-fp` or `--feature-plural` where the feature name is the **plural** name of the feature.

This project uses [strongly typed IDs](https://www.ssw.com.au/rules/do-you-use-strongly-typed-ids/),
which require registration in the `VogenEfCoreConverters` class:

```csharp
// Register the newly created Entity ID here
[EfCoreConverter<PersonId>]
internal sealed partial class VogenEfCoreConverters;
```

This creates everything you need to get started with a new feature.

- Full CRUD endpoints
- CQRS 
    - missing `EventHandlers/` folder as this is more uncommon
    - provides `Events/` as a folder to demonstrate how to trigger side effects
- Basic REPR pattern (i.e., Request, an Endpoint, and a Response)
- Adds a new Entity
- Basic DDD pattern - the 'Complete' method on the entity shows adding Domain events and using `Result` objects instead of exceptions for validation
- Adds a DbSet to the DbContext
- Adds EF Core Entity Type Configuration
- Adds a Repository

While there is a small amount of code to remove, it is better to push you towards the pit of success, than allow inconsistency.

# 📝 Architecture

```mermaid
graph TD;
    subgraph ASP.NET Core Web App
        subgraph Slices
            A[Feature A]
            B[Feature B]
        end
        Slices --> |depends on| Common
        Host --> |depends on| Common
        Host --> |depends on| Slices
        ASPNETCore[ASP.NET Core] --> |uses| Host
    end

    Common[Common]
```

# ✨ Features

- C# 12
- .NET 8
- ASP.NET Core
- Minimal APIs
- EF Core
- Swagger UI
